So in this demo, we're first going to use the VPC construct to create a VPC.
We'll then create custom network ACLs in that VPC.
Thirdly, we're going to connect the VPC stack and the containers back together.
We'll also see how CDK handles those dependencies.
So now, we're back here at our development environment,
which you should all know very well by now,
and we're going to do the same thing we did with our ecs_stack.
We are going to first duplicate our lambda_stack,
and we're going to rename this lambda_stack as network_stack.
This network_stack will hold all of our network constructs for this application.
We're going to rename the class as NetworkStack,
and as usual,
we're going to get rid of all of the Lambda code and get rid of the
Lamda dependencies that we imported because we will not be needing
these dependencies for the networking stack.
The only dependency that the network_stack actually needs is EC2,
so we're going to import the aws_ec2 library as ec2.
We'll also edit the setup.py file,
and we're going to add ec2 to the setup.py file.
So similar to what we did before,
I'll just copy this dependency and replace the library that
we're going to be requiring to aws_ec2.
Afterwards,
we can just install these libraries as usual and have the
dependencies added into our Python virtual environment.
Just so you know,
these dependencies are not actually added to the requirements.text file.
They fully depend on setup.py for the list of
dependencies or to enumerate these dependencies.
Now, we will also be specifying arguments that are not here by default.
As we are creating a network stack, we may require more inputs,
or more user provided options, that can help us with the network stack specifics,
so we're going to add custom arguments to this constructor.
First off, we're going to add cidr as our custom argument,
and we're going to pass a default value to this.
I'm just going to make it 10.10.0.0/16.
Next customer argument that I'm going to pass is the subnet_mask,
and I'm just going to change this to a default value of 24.
Third, we're going to specify how many NAT gateways we're going to provision.
In this case, I'll just say 1 nat_gateways because they are quite expensive.
Next,
our last argument is the database port that we want to
possibly add to our network access control list,
so we'll add a db_port argument,
and I'm going to put 5432 as the default db_port.
That is actually the default db_port of postgres.
So our constructor can now access all of the arguments
that we specified in the function.
Now, let's actually write our VPC code.
So I'm going to create a resource here called vpc,
and I'm going to assign it to this class so that it's
accessible from outside the class.
We'll talk about how that's done later or why we're doing that later.
So I'm creating an ec2.vpc resource.
As usual, I'm passing in the stack itself and the label for that VPC resource,
and I'm just calling it VPC.
Now, the VPC resource can have several arguments in CDK.
CDK actually has very nice tools that can help you provision VPCs more easily.
So first, we're going to have to pass in an argument to max_azs.
Max_azs allows you to specify what the maximum
number of AZs your VPC will exist in.
So, for example, if I specify 2, it means that if I am in a region with 3 AZs,
my VPC will only create subnets in 2 of these availability zones.
In this case, we're actually going to specify a max_azs value of 6.
This is because the North Virginia region has the most number of
availability zones and has six availability zones.
This will always assure us that we're going to create one
subnet for every AZ in a particular region.
Next, we're going to specify the cidr value,
and we're going to take the input from our constructor
as the value for this parameter.
Next, we'll specify nat_gateways.
You can actually specify how many nat_gateways you want to exist in this VPC.
In this case, we're going to pass in the nat_gateways parameter as well.
Next, we're going to specify the subnet_configuration.
Now,
the subnet_configuration is an array of the different
subnets you're going to create on this VPC.
This array should contain elements that are of type subnet_configuration.
We're going to be creating three types of subnets,
so we will need three subnet_configurations.
The first configuration we're going to pass is the public subnets.
So we're going to say ec2.SubnetConfiguration,
and we're going to specify what our first subnet_configuration is going to be.
So this SubnetConfiguration class takes in three arguments,
first, the subnet_type, second, the name of the subnet,
and third, the subnet_mask or cidr_mask for this subnet.
Now, what are the values of these parameters going to be?
First, the subnet type, like I mentioned earlier,
is going to be a public subnet,
and there is a constant for that that we have to use.
That is ec2.SubnetType.PUBLIC.
Secondly, we're just going to name this subnet Public.
Third,
we're going to pass in the subnet_mask that we took
from the argument in the constructor.
Now,
what this means right now is that it's going to
create a maximum of 6 public subnets,
1 public subnet in every availability zone in the region.
That is because we set the max_azs to 6.
Take note that this is max_azs.
So if we're in a region with three AZs,
then it's only going to create three public subnets in that region
because there's only three AZs in that region.
We can actually copy this configuration for our other two subnet_configurations.
So I'm going to paste this block of code two more times,
and I'm just going to change the configuration of the other two subnets.
So first, I am going to specify that the second subnet_configuration is private,
and we're going to name it private,
and I'm going to specify that the third subnet_configuration is isolated,
and I'm going to name it the DB subnet.
An isolated subnet just means that there is no route to a NAT gateway.
The private subnet will have a route to a NAT gateway.
So now,
what is going to happen is we're going to create a maximum of 18 subnets total.
Why?
Because the max_azs applies to each subnet.
So if we have a max_azs value of 6,
that means it's going to create a maximum of 6 public subnets,
6 private subnets, and 6 isolated subnets.
If I am deploying this in the Singapore region though,
which is what I'm going to do now,
then I'm going to be actually creating nine subnets,
three public, three private, and three isolated.
The CDK will take care of your cidr block computation for you.
So that's actually all you need to do to create your VPC.
You can see how the CDK again abstracts a lot of the configuration for you using these high‑level subnet_configuration constructs.